**Definition**:

- Social engineering is the art of **manipulating people** into revealing **confidential information**.
- Common targets include **help desk personnel**, **technical support executives**, and **system administrators**.

**Why It Works**:

- It exploits people's **unawareness** about the value of their information.
- It also takes advantage of their **carelessness** in protecting sensitive data.

---

### **Impact of Social Engineering Attacks on Organizations**

1. **Economic Loss**
2. **Loss of Privacy**
3. **Lawsuits and Arbitrations**
4. **Dangers of Terrorism**

---

### **Factors Making Organizations Vulnerable**

1. **Insufficient Security Training**
2. **Unregulated Access to Information**
3. **Lack of Security Policies**

---

### **Phases of a Social Engineering Attack**

1. **Research on the Target Company**
    - Methods: Dumpster diving, browsing websites, studying employees, or touring the company.
2. **Select a Victim**
    - Focus on **frustrated employees** of the target company.
3. **Develop a Relationship**
    - Build trust with the selected employees.
4. **Exploit the Relationship**
    - Extract sensitive information, such as:
        - Account and financial details.
        - Information about current technologies used by the company.

---

### **Types of Social Engineering**

1. **Human-Based Social Engineering**
    
    - Involves **direct interaction** to gather sensitive information.
2. **Computer-Based Social Engineering**
    
    - Uses **computers or digital devices** to carry out the attack.

---


Extra:
Earlier, PCs used to come with very less RAM and storage.
RAM around 64MB or 128MB and with a storage of 5GB to 10GB. However, they used to cost around same as that of today's computers.
But in today's world, the people with age of 50 to 60 are not much aware of the technology, and that's how they become the victim of such attacks. So, the attackers try to convince them to do certain things, which will benefit the attacker with the confidential information.

Scam:
Nowadays, attackers try to send the fake marriage invitation scam, when you click the link or open the file, then it will install an application on your device which will compromise your privacy and steal your information.

Len Noe, a person who has implanted over 10 chips inside his body which can bypass about 450+ types of physical security. He is a white hat hacker. These are like some of the latest or next level threat to the information security.

These days QR codes are also used for phishing attacks. In fact, most of the times.

What is sniffing and spoofing? Sniffing the network?
For network sniffing, we have a tool called as Wireshark.

Advanced IP scanner used to check which devices are connected to the network that the scanner is in.

OSINT
SQRX disposable browser
disposable file viewer: you can view sus files inside this safely.
disposable email too
start.me